# Metadata

This data is downloaded from the Georgia Department of Public Health website. Until June 1 2020, it was scraped from a table twice daily. Starting June 2, 2020, the data was made available as CSVs once a day at 3 PM and was downloaded at 7 PM EST. On July 13 2020, the original table that we scraped was taken offline, and the only data is that from the csv download.

## from-dashboard

This directly contains the raw data downloaded daily from the [GA DPH](https://dph.georgia.gov/covid-19-daily-status-report). It began on June 2 2020. Data is downloaded via the `GDPH_daily_status_download.R` and saved in a daily folder within the `from-dashboard/raw-data` folder. 

Each folder contains the following:

- `ga_covid_data.zip`: compressed data downloaded directly from website
- `countycases.csv`: cumulative case data by county, including cases, deaths, hospitalizations, and case rates.
- `deaths.csv`: Linelist of deaths including age, race, sex, county, and chronic condition (1/0)
- `demographics.csv`: cumulative cases and deaths in Georgia, split by ethnicity and race.

## GA_daily_status_report_GDPH
Reads from the Georgia Department of Public Health website, the number of COVID-19 cases, fatalities, and tests in the state of Georgia. Generated by `read_GDPH_daily_status_report.R` that extracts data from the [Georgia Department of Public Health](https://dph.georgia.gov/covid-19-daily-status-report) and outputs file `GA_daily_status_report_GDPH.csv`. 

**The website this scrapped from is no longer available, as of July 13 2020. Our data collection ended then. There is an alternative form of this data in the `from-dashboard` folder, but it only began on June 2 2020.**

<b>Metadata: </b> </br>
 Column name description of data file:
- `date` - Date of the last status update on the website
- `time` - Time of the last status update on the website
- `cases_cumulative` - Number of cumulative cases
- `fatalities_cumulative` - Number of cumulative fatalities
- `tests_cumulative` - Number of cumulative tests
- `hospitalizations_cumulative` - Number of cumulative hospitalizations
- `new_cases` - Number of new daily cases 
- `new_fatalities` - Number of new daily fatalities
- `new_tests` - Number of new daily tests
- `new_hospitalizations` - Number of new daily hospitalizations
- `source_cases` - source url of number of cases
- `source_fatalities` - source url of number of fatalities
- `source_tests` - source url of number of tests


<b>Related subdirectory and/or files </b>
- `read_GDPH_daily_status_report.R`
- GA_daily_status_report_GDPH.csv

<b>Projects</b>
- TBD

## GA_fatalities_demography_GDPH
Reads from the Georgia Department of Public Health website, demographic information of fatality cases as well as existence of any underlying condition. Source: https://dph.georgia.gov/covid-19-daily-status-report.

**The website this scrapped from is no longer available, as of July 13 2020. Our data collection ended then. There is an alternative form of this data in the `from-dashboard` folder, but it only began on June 2 2020.**

<b>Metadata: </b> </br>
 Column name description of data file:
- `Age` - person's age 
- `Race` - person's race
- `Sex` - person's sex
- `County` - Georgia county  
- `chronic_condition` - Existence of underlying condition (Yes, No, Unk)
- `Latest_Status_Report` - Date and time of the last update on the website

<b>Related subdirectory and/or files </b>
- GA_fatalities_demography_GDPH.csv

<b>Projects</b>
- TBD


## GA_county_cases_fatalities_GDPH
Reads from the Georgia Department of Public Health website, information about number of cases and fatalities per county. Source: https://dph.georgia.gov/covid-19-daily-status-report.

**The website this scrapped from is no longer available, as of July 13 2020. Our data collection ended then. There is an alternative form of this data in the `from-dashboard` folder, but it only began on June 2 2020.**

<b>Metadata: </b> </br>
 Column name description of data file:
- `County` - County's name if known, otherwise it will appear as 'Unknown'
- `Cases` - Number of cases per county
- `Fatalities` - Number of fatalities per county
- `Hospitalizations` - Number of Hospitalizations
- `Latest_Status_Report` - Date and time of the last status update on the website

<b>Related subdirectory and/or files </b>
- TBD

<b>Projects</b>
- TBD


## GA_cases_race_ethnicity_GDPH.csv
Reads from the Georgia Department of Public Health website, information about number of cases and fatalities per race and ethnicity. Source: https://dph.georgia.gov/covid-19-daily-status-report.

**The website this scrapped from is no longer available, as of July 13 2020. Our data collection ended then. There is an alternative form of this data in the `from-dashboard` folder, but it only began on June 2 2020.**

<b>Metadata: </b> </br>
 Column name description of data file:
- `Ethnicity` - Ethnicity  
- `Race` - Race
- `Cases` - Number of cases per ethnicity 
- `Deaths` - Number of fatalities per ethnicity 
- `Latest_Status_Report` - Date and time of the last update

<b>Related subdirectory and/or files </b>
- TBD

<b>Projects</b>
- TBD


## dash.html

Latest daily download of the GA DPH dashboard HTML

**The website this scrapped from is no longer available, as of July 13 2020. Our data collection ended then. There is an alternative form of this data in the `from-dashboard` folder, but it only began on June 2 2020.**

## GA-DPH-CanvasJS-data-cases-deaths.csv

Reads from CanvasJS chart data in dash.html

Metadata:
 Column name descript of data file:
- `date` - date of count
- `cumulative_cases` - cumulative number of covid cases' symptom onset or lab diagnosis
- `cumulative_deaths` - cumulative number of deaths
- `dph_report_generation_time` - timestamp on webpage of report generation
- `dashboard_md5sum` - md5 checksum of the dash.html file used to obtain the data

**The website this scrapped from is no longer available, as of July 13 2020. Our data collection ended then. There is an alternative form of this data in the `from-dashboard` folder, but it only began on June 2 2020.**



